---
layout: default
title: 10 principles for technical writers
parent: My portfolio
nav_order: 3
---

# 10 PRINCIPLES FOR TECHNICAL WRITERS

1. Answer main questions.
Why am I writing this type of document? For who? What is the goal of it? What I need to complete the documentation? Do I have tools to do it? How long I am gonna do it? When I supposed to deliver it? Who will be customer?

2. Determine type of documentation.
I need to find out what kind of documentation I should develop. Is it a release note, instruction, manual or something else? Focus on what is important and what you need to write.Think about structure of documentation. Is it only text? Maybe I need screenshoots, pictures or drawing in documentation?

3. Make a draft of documentation.
Do a draft of your idea and discuss it with your boss or SME. Is good to show someone a part of finished documentation. Let the others make changes on it, listen them and try to accept compromise.

4. Try to keep ISO 9001 standard.
Read ISO 9001:2015 “Quality managemenst system – Requirements” and adjust with the rules described inside.

5. Do proofreading.
Write part of documentation, chapter or section and read it. Keep your concentration on stylistics, spelling, grammar and content! 

6. Keep text simple and clear.
Use simple and popular words. Assume that the reciepent do not know specialized and hard language. Write simple as you can.

7. Verify usefulness.
Check quality of being practical in use. Follow the instructions and do everything step by step – be a client during veryfying.
 
8. Be in touch with SME's.
Ask for help, approve parts of the text, discuss about your work, request for additionas materials you need to read. If you know that you will not do it on time, ask for more time.

9. Never stop teaching yourself.
The World is constantly changing, we can not stand in the same place. Customers change and we have to adapt to the needs of them. Read, learn and develop you skills!

  10. Be brave!
Do not be shy, we are all human being. Everyone do mistakes. Write, do mistakes, correct mistakes, write again, read, write... Without practice there is no good technical writers!